20 interview questions for Operators

1. What is an Operator in general?
	In general, an Operator is defined as a character used in Mathematics or in Programming to execute a specific function. 
	For example, operators are used differently in different fields. Let's check out two of the fields here.
	In Mathematics: Let's consider “x” as an operator in mathematics that executes the function called multiplication.  
	In Programming: Let's consider one of the popular operators used in computer programming languages, which is a Boolean operator used to express whether a statement is true or false.

2. What is meant by an Operator in Python?
	These are the special symbols in Python and are used to execute an Arithmetic or Logical computation. 
	An operator alone cannot perform an activity, it needs an Operand. 

3. What is an operand? 
	An Operand is a value that the operator needs to complete a task.

4. What are types of Operator?
	We have multiple operators in Python, and each operator is subdivided into other operators. Let’s list them down and know about each operator in detail.
	1. Arithmetic operators
	2. Comparison operators
	3. Assignment operators
	4. Logical operators
	5. Bitwise operators
	6. Membership operators
	7. Special operators
	8. Identity operators
	9. Membership operators

5. What are the operands that are permitted with logical operators in Python?
	We have three different logical operators that are supported by Python, and they are, and logical And, or logical OR, & not logical NOT.

6. What is the difference between “is” and “ == “ in Python?
	'==' operator is used in Python to check for value equality of both the operands whereas 
	'is' an operator is used to express whether the two operands are pointing towards the same object or not.

7. What does == mean in Python?
	'==' is a Python comparison operator. It is mainly used to check whether the values of two operands are equal or not. If the value is equal, then the condition becomes true.

8. What is operator precedence in Python?
	Operator precedence is a predetermined order used to resolve the problem called multiple operations at a single time. 
	Every part is examined and addressed in a predefined manner. 
	Parentheses are used to override the order of precedence, and some parts are evaluated after others.

9. Which operator has the highest precedence in Python?
	'()' parentheses have the highest precedence in Python.

10. Which operator has the lowest precedence in Python?
	Logical OR has the lowest precedence in Python.

11. What is Floor Division Python?
	The Floor Operator is used to make a Division that results in the whole number adjusted to the left in the number line.
	ex: When 5 is divided by 2, the answer is 2.5
	When you apply floor division to it, it becomes 2 (left side adjustment).

12. Is there a "not equal" operator in Python?
	Yes! We have 'not equal' operator in Python, and it is used to compare two operands and returns a True statement if they are not equal, and a False if they are Equal.

13. What does <> mean in Python?
	!= or <> Both symbols are used for expressing the not equal.
	<> It returns a true statement if both the operands are False, otherwise True.

14. When programming in Python operators with the same precedence are evaluated in which manner?
	When two Python operators have the same precedence, you use associativity to determine the order. 
	Almost all operators have associativity of left to right. 
	For example, multiplication and division have the same precedence. So, the operator on the left will be evaluated first.

15. When do you choose list over tuple?
	When there is an immutable ordered list of elements we choose tuple. 
	Because we cannot add/remove an element from the tuple. On the other hand, we can add elements to a list using append () or extend() or insert(), etc., and 
	delete elements from a list using remove() or pop(). Simple tuples are immutable, and lists are not.

16. What is role of operator in Python?
	In Python, operators are special symbols, combinations of symbols, or keywords that designate some type of computation. 
	You can combine objects and operators to build expressions that perform the actual computation. 
	So, operators are the building blocks of expressions, which you can use to manipulate your data.

17. What is the main function of operators?
	Depending on its type, an operator manipulates an arithmetic or logical value, or operand, in a specific way to generate a specific result. 
	From handling simple arithmetic functions to facilitating the execution of complex algorithms, like security encryption, operators play an important role in the programming world.

18. What is the another name of Comparison Operators?
	Relational Operators

19. Which is the correct operator for power(xy)?
	x**y 

20. Which one of the following has the same precedence level?
	Addition and Subtraction and Multiplication and Division

	


